一些暂时用不到，但可能马上就用上的资料
随手记一下
{% raw %}
# 分类通配文件
- <https://www.amitmerchant.com/showing-related-posts-based-on-the-current-post-category-in-jekyll/>
- <https://talk.jekyllrb.com/t/category-page-need-a-page-with-a-link-to-all-posts-of-a-category/2997/7>
- <https://talk.jekyllrb.com/t/create-a-page-for-every-category/718/3>
- <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25958652/how-to-create-a-link-to-each-category>
<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
`site.categories[page.categories]`
</details>
<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
There's another solution that works on GitHub Pages:  
One single page that contains all posts for all categories.

I answered a similar question here where I showed how to do this:  
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1408824/an-easy-way-to-support-tags-in-a-jekyll-blog/21002505#21002505  

In my answer, I'm using tags instead of categories, but as far as I know, both work exactly the same way.  
*(so you can just take my code and replace `site.tags` by `site.categories`)*

The generated HTML for each tag will look something like this:

      <h3 id="jekyll">jekyll</h3>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <a href="/blah/">Newest Jekyll post</a>
        </li>
        <li>
          <a href="/foo/">Older Jekyll post</a>
        </li>
      </ul>


---

That was the page which displays all posts for each category.  
Now to the categories list in the navigation bar.

Again, take a look at the HTML above:  
Thanks to the `id="jekyll"` part, you can use the link `/tags/#jekyll` to load the `/tags/` page and directly jump to the Jekyll tag.

On my site, I'm using this everywhere where I'm linking to the `/tags/` page.

To create these links in your navigation bar as well, you just need to take the first example code from your question and change this:

    <a name="{{ category | first }}">

...to this:

    <a href="/tags/#{{ category | first }}">

*(I'll just assume that your categories page is under the URL `/tags/` as well, like in my example)*

So the complete code will look like that:

    {% for category in site.categories %}
        <div class="categories-title"><a href="/tags/#{{ category | first }}">{{ category | first }}</a></div>   
    {% endfor %}

The generated HTML will have a link like the following, for each category:

    <div class="categories-title"><a href="/tags/#jekyll">jekyll</a></div> 

---

**EDIT:**

You wrote in a comment:
>  I see that you have all tags with posts on one page. I have created a categories page and I would like to use this page as a template. While clicking each category in the navigation bar, I would like it to link to its own page.

In the meantime, I wrote a blog post about building separate category pages without a plugin:  
[Separate pages per tag/category with Jekyll (without plugins)](http://christianspecht.de/2014/10/25/separate-pages-per-tag-category-with-jekyll-without-plugins/) 
</details>
<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
In the _layouts folder there is a file called category-page.html

This file creates a category page of all posts that refer to a category.

To trigger the generation of a category page you need another file (for example in a pages directory) that specifies the layout generator category-page and specifies for which category it should generate a page. The yaml title is used for the category page.
</details>

# Jekyll中，英文标题问题
包括post和分类
- <https://talk.jekyllrb.com/t/filename-and-page-title-do-not-have-the-same-capitalization/6912/2>
<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
部分代码
```
{%- assign posts = site.posts -%}
{% for post in posts %}
    {%- assign paths = post.relative_path |  split: '/' | last | split: '.markdown' | first | split: '-' -%}
    {%- assign mytitle = "" -%}
    {% for path in paths offset: 3 %}
        {%- assign mytitle = mytitle | append: path | append: " " -%}
    {% endfor %}
    {% assign mytitle = mytitle | strip %}
    My title: {{mytitle}}
{% endfor %}
```
</details>
- <https://stackoverflow.com/a/46029868/2537458>

<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
Name pages in Kabab-case as you want them to appear, then use replace:
```
    {{ category.name | replace: '-', ' '}}
```
`Don't-Capitalize-the` becomes `Don't Capitalize the` and `Capitalize-The` becomes `Capitalize The`
</details>

# 显式生成站点
似乎GHPAGES站点发布时
除了默认的隐式，还可以显式生成
提问所附代码中可以找到关键字
`helaili/jekyll-action`
[参考](https://stackoverflow.com/q/72360076)
<details markdown=1><summary markdown=span>存档</summary>
###### 问题
I have a Jekyll page in the master branch of a repository and used to have a GitHub workflow that transforms my Jekyll markdown website into static HTML in a `static` branch:

## .github/workflows/build.yml

```
name: Build and deploy Jekyll site to the static branch

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  push:
    branches:
      - master

jobs:
  deploy:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - uses: actions/cache@v3
        with:
          path: vendor/bundle
          key: ${{ runner.os }}-gems-${{ hashFiles('**/Gemfile') }}
          restore-keys: |
            ${{ runner.os }}-gems-
      - uses: helaili/jekyll-action@v2
        with:
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          target_branch: "static"
```

Then I set GitHub pages to the static HTML content of the `static` branch and it worked fine. However I noticed that I don't need that at all, as I can just remove the workflow, point GitHub pages to the `master` branch and it will directly publish it from the `master` branch in Markdown form using Jekyll.

Now I don't know which of those two approaches I should use. Is one faster or more flexible then the other? What are the tradeoffs between them? Will GitHub look at my Gemfile or Gemfile.lock or use it's own predefined Jekyll version? Can I use any Gems I want to use any document processor or is there some invisible filter which only allows certain Gems? Does GitHub transform the page to HTML once and publish it to a hidden branch or does it run Jekyll as a server?

###### 答案
If you let GitHub build for you, there are a few considerations:

- Definitely less flexible: you can't pick the Jekyll version (it's 3.9.2 at the moment), and there is a finite [list of supported plugins][1]
- [Some plugins][2] are enabled by default and can't be disabled; they are mostly around to enable painless conversion of linked Markdown documents without front matter
- `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` are ignored, but they are useful to run the same setup locally as used for GitHub Pages (by way of using the `github-pages` gem)

When GitHub Pages builds your site for you, it runs a [workflow][3], which eventually will be customizable, containing these two actions:

- [actions/jekyll-build-pages][4]
- [actions/deploy-pages][5]

But you don't have to configure anything yourself in terms of workflows.

I recommend reading the [*Setting up a GitHub Pages site with Jekyll*][6] docs top to bottom, they have a lot of useful information.


  [1]: https://pages.github.com/versions/
  [2]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/about-github-pages-and-jekyll#plugins
  [3]: https://github.blog/changelog/2021-12-16-github-pages-using-github-actions-for-builds-and-deployments-for-public-repositories/
  [4]: https://github.com/actions/jekyll-build-pages
  [5]: https://github.com/actions/deploy-pages
  [6]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll
</details>
{% endraw %}

